# When and Why to Use Docker

Docker can be used in team work when a team member wants to distribute or collaborate his/her entire app’s operating system with others. Docker provides repeatable development, test and production environments, which allows every member to work in a production parity environment. The container standardization of Docker helps engineers spend less time in configuring development and production environments so that they have more time to develop new features. 

Developers can use Docker when their applications need to go through multiple phases of development, test and production.  Docker enable developers to build an image and use the same image across every step of the development process. Docker is able to run independent steps in parallel, which saves the time spent on the process from build to production. 

Besides container standardization and continuous integration efficiency, Docker provides a convenient way to start to learn a new technology. Assuming a person who isn’t familiar with Node at all, instead of spending time on installation and configuration, he/she can simply pull a Node image from Docker repository and start to build his/her own application immediately. 

Another example on why to use Docker is an application which consists of database, backend and frontend and each of the services has a different host. Without Docker it’s quite complicated to start these three services separately to get the application work. With Docker-compose, it’s simple to configure all the application’s services in a YAML file and start all the services from the configuration with only one command. 

